Now we have our materials
organised in an easy to access
folder and hopefully you have
downloaded QGIS we can begin our
first project.
We're going to open up QGIS. I
have it here on my desktop, but
if you don't just look it up in
your computer search bar and
find where it is.
So I'm going to click on it to
open it up
and this is the page you'll be
greeted with when you open it
up.
We can go into Project Templates
and click on New Empty Project
to begin.
The first thing we're going to
do is save our project into the
folder that we created before,
so go on to the Project tab,
click on save as
and then navigate to the folder
we created. So for me it was in
my OneDrive,
in my Documents
and here it is intro QGIS. So
I'm going to go into here
and I'm going to name my project
Intro Project
and then hit save.
And now what we're going to do
is add a basemap into our map
project. So to do this we're
going to need to install a
plugin called QuickMapServices
that has a lot of basemaps that
are freely available for us to
use. So plugins are external
software that we can add into
QGIS. To add QuickMapServices,
we need to go into the Plugins
tab at the top,
click on Manage and Install
Plugins
which will bring this window up
and then in the search bar we
can type in QuickMapServices
and here it has come up. So
we're going to click on it
and now we can click on Install
plugin
and wait for it to load up.
OK great, so now it's loaded up.
We can go and access this plugin
by either clicking on the globe
icon here, if we hover over it
we can see it's for
QuickMapServices
or we can go into the web tab
and here we can see our plugin.
So at the moment we have access
to some NASA data and OSM data.
We can access even more by going
into Settings,
clicking on the More Services
tab,
and then the Get Contributed
pack. So we're going to click on
that and wait for it to load up.
There we go, we've got it
downloaded here now.
So now if we go back to our
QuickMapServices, so in web, and
then click back on the tab, we
can now see that we have access
to a lot more data.
So we're going to load up a base
map from ESRI. So we'll go into
the ESRI tab
and we're going to choose ESRI
standard. So just click on this
and there you go. It's going to
load up. So we have our base map
in our project, and now that
we've added something into our
project, let's hit save
and make sure that we save our
changes because we're going to
be using this project for the
rest of the course.